Doing Projects

Your business is growing day by day and the reviews you’ve got are overwhelming. So you decide you wanna open another store in another city to expand your business. You’ve bought a shop in the city but you’ve got to setup it up. Say this place is in Bangalore and you are located at Bombay. It’s easy to coordinate with everything when the store is in the same city where you’re staying. But since this is Bangalore we’re talking about you’ll have to go there every now and then to follow up with the work going on in your store there.
Do you think this is that easy? Consider you want to complete the renovation of your store within 6 months. And you have a certain budget in mind. If you don’t plan everything right in the beginning it becomes difficult to reach your goal on time n within the budget. So maybe you just have a plan on paper and you appointed some people you trust to help you with the accomplishment of this plan. This is not enough. You need to follow up with everything. Right from the designing to the painting work to the carpentry and the list goes on. So you appoint an architect to help you with the designing of the store. All you want is that the store should look like the way you though about it and should complete within the stipulated time and budget.
So the work starts and you travel to and fro. This becomes tedious for you because you need to keep a check on your current business in Bombay and the new project of opening a new store in Bangalore. It’s not that easy to keep a tab of everything. So maybe you appoint some people, say employees to manage the work for you. And you follow up every once in a week. As the work progresses you’ve realized that the work is going slow and the amount that you’ve allocated for this project is exceeding the amount that you’ve allocated. 
Obviously you’ll get pissed off and when you check the bills and stuff you realize that the workers haven’t worked the way they were supposed to and some of your employees have manipulated some bill amount. You’ve wasted money and time. Things go off track. And the list of wrongs just goes on increasing. How will you get things back on track? What if you’ve already set the date for the opening and you’ve called the press and some of your important customers? What if you’ve arranged for the caterers? Cause all of these needs to be done in advance right. If your store doesn’t open on the said time it won’t only embarrass you but also waste a lot of your money.
Wouldn’t it be better if everything is planned right in the beginning and you get weekly updates right where you’re located so you don’t have to move to and fro for every small thing every time. If things are organized right from the beginning then your project can be completed on time. Every drop of water forms an ocean you see. So when everyone is appointed on different tasks and responsible for it, it becomes easy for you to keep tabs of the work in progress.
Erpnext helps you to keep a tab of all these tasks and in a systemized way you can keep a track of the progress of your project. So instead of using papers and registers to enter information you can use a system which can be accessed by all. This will help you save time and money. Y am I saying that? Instead of traveling you can sit in your Bombay store and keep a watch of what’s happening in Bangalore. So with the help of this module you can add the project you’re working on with the duration and approximate budget.
Then you can appoint tasks for different workers. For e.g. if painting is going on then you can decide when you want the task to be completed. Looking at this estimated time and actual time taken you can make your decisions. Like maybe based on how well and fast they do the work you can pay them a little more. So like this every task can be looked after and you can only visit the site for inspections. This way you can keep a track of all your task right from the beginning. And hence avoid unnecessary tensions due to incompletion of work.
Your employees can also check what task they are responsible for and within what time they should complete their work. This way everyone can work towards the completion of the project. There’s something called as Gantt chart which will help you and your employees to see the overall picture of the progress of your project. That is the actual time you’ve taken to complete a task against the estimated time. Sometimes you maybe busy with family work and the ongoing business in Bombay so with the help of this chart you can see what’s happening with the renovation of your store. And if all the tasks are completed on time maybe you can give your employees a raise. At the end of the day you need to keep them happy na. Because they are actually running the show for you.
The different functions that you have in erpnext are as follows:-
Project: -this gives you a list of all the projects you’ve undertaken. You can feed in information about how much time should be taken for its completion and what is the amount you’re going to allocate for this project. This helps you plan your time and money on each task accordingly.
Task: - you can break your project into small task and appoint this task to each of your employee. This way you can complete your project faster. And enter the estimated time and who is gonna handle that task. This will help you and your employee. Because the employee who is responsible for the task will give you a report and based on this you can make decisions.
Timesheet: - it basically gives you the time you’ve taken for each task.
Gantt chart: - this gives you the duration of each task that is included within your project and the total estimated time of your project. So everything is within one page itself you get an overview of what’s happening in your project. The actual time taken against the estimated time. This will help you to make decisions as to which task is going slower so you can appoint more workers.


Points to remember
When the project is scheduled and planned properly right from the start it’s easier to complete it on time.
Assign each task to your trusted employee. So you know who is responsible for what and you can shoulder your responsibility. 
Use the Gantt chart so both you and your employee can see the progress of every task and thus the entire project.
Timelines can be used to assign the hours worked by every worker for a particular task. And thus you can pay him based on the hours he has worked.
At the end of it all systematic and properly scheduled work always pays off. Erpnext makes your work easier and thus you can complete your project on time.

