Stock Keeping
 
Since we’ve spoken about how to purchase an item from your supplier and the benefits of keeping him happy there’s something you also need to be aware of and that is how do you check whether a product is in your store or no? For that you need to maintain some stock entries right. What if two pretty girls come to you and ask for say some awesome red velvet ballets and you definitely don’t wanna disappoint them. Their so excited about it and then you realize that those shoes aren’t in the store. They then ask you if you could get it for them after some time and you have no idea about which supplier you need to order them from and even if you do you have no idea how long will it take to deliver. You are in a soup then. 
Don’t you wanna avoid all this? So if your stock is in place and you are aware about the stock with you, you can at least tell those pretty girls about when will the shoes arrive incase they aren’t there and better than that would be that, you place an order for those shoes much in advance and see that they are in store. So see your once step ahead. That’s one of the qualities a business man needs to possess.
Ok I don’t wanna confuse you. See its simple your business is related to selling of high end shoes to your customer’s right? You simply wanna maintain an account of all the stock (shoes) that you have with you and the one’s that need to be purchased from you suppliers. Remember the buying module where you had to buy the raw materials required to manufacture your shoes or the complete product itself. So that with the help of keeping all the information about your stock, you can purchase the ones you require and sell it to your customers accordingly.
You can’t let you poor brains retain all these minor details because you are bound to forget something. And that minor details could lead to some loss to your business and you don’t want to let that happen, do you? So that’s where erpnext comes into the picture. Here you can add in new items into the system, check the level of stock, so you can purchase stuff which is needed etc. the main reason to have a stock module is to enter all the items you have along with the quantity and price etc.

Let me explain all this to you in details through a scenario. 
You have a lot of shoes of different sizes and color and brand etc. in your store. You’ve launched another branch, let’s say pune. The amount of shoes that are there in both these stores is more than 600. Each brand has different sizes and color. With such a huge no of items in both the store, it’s impossible for you to remember them. That’s why you need erpnext to help you to keep a track of all the shoes. You can check the stock level and reports and check if a certain shoe of a particular color and size is in your store. Based on this you can even check the shoes that are there in your pune branch. This makes it so easy for you to decide what you need to do. 
It’s like going to crossword (book store).when you enter this store you can check whether a particular book is available by looking into your system and then pick it up from where it’s situated. This saves a lot of time. Because what if you just went in and wasted your time searching for that particular book when it’s not actually available. Similarly when you enter the item’s(shoes) you have into your system you can check the stock level and then order for those shoes that needs to be purchased. It’s like a lady comes to your store and wants 5 pairs of different branded shoes of different styles. So then you can check your stock from your system and then lookout for it in your shop. Suppose 1 pair isn’t of her size then you can check in your pune store whether it’s available there. If it is then you can ask someone to get that pair to your store in Bombay. Otherwise you can purchase it from your supplier. Look at the amount of decisions you can make just sitting at one place while using erpnext. 

What if you have some shoes which have gone out of style but it’s in your store. With erpnext you can check which shoes haven’t been sold for a long period of time by viewing the stock aging report. In this report you can see the rate at which you bought the item. Based on this you can have a sale for your customers with 50% discount or so. This will make your customers very happy because who doesn’t like sales? This way you can sell your old stock. Maybe at a lower price but that’s better than not getting anything for it. 
Now consider you have don’t have the two red ballet shoes those two pretty girls asked for. Then what would you do? Obviously you’ll check the suppliers who provide these shoes to you and purchase it from him. Since you need to purchase these two shoes, after deciding which supplier you want to buy it from, at the best rate, that is, so you send a purchase order to your decided supplier. 
Once the order is delivered to you, you happily give those two pairs of shoes to your pretty customers.
What if these two girls went home and checked that there’s some defect in them. So they’ll come back and return them to you and according to your terms and conditions your customer can return the product within a period of 10 days. So they return them to you. And ask you to give them a new pair. So you do that. What will you do with this defected piece? Waste of money rite? You’ll catch hold of the supplier who sold it to you but he says he didn’t sell them to you. What will you do? That’s bad right? You argue and start yelling and both of you’ll get into a big fight. But what’s the use he’s not going to listen to you. The next thing you would do is never purchase anything from this supplier. That’s fine. It will save you in the future. But here we are talking only about two pairs. But what if you’ve bought this pair in bulk and most of them are defected. Now you can imagine the loss for your business. 
But erpnext allows you to make a purchase receipt which is like a formal document that you can keep for later reference especially in a situation mentioned above where you wanna prove that you have purchased the goods from that supplier. You then have all you purchase receipts in one place and you can then check the receipt you need to show your supplier incase of any purchase returns. Similarly, when you need to make any sales return, you’ll have a sales receipt against which you can legally return your item back to your seller and get reimbursed. 
When your customer returns say 1 pair of shoes out of the 3 pairs that she bought then your stock level will change, that is the quantity for that type of shoe will increase and the bill that you produce to your customer will change.  That is the amount will reduce or you’ll replace it with a new pair.
All that’s explained above is done against the delivery note that’s produced incase of sales and purchases made. So again it’s just a formal document. Just imagine if you don’t have all this or you make receipts and make a file for that. To check something you’ll have to check all the files and receipts one by one. That becomes too tedious. But erpnext allows you to keep a track of all this at one place itself. So work becomes easier and faster
So convinced nah, At least a little more than before? Now the best thing that you can do to avoid any gadbad later on is to inspect everything at every stage. When we consider the black pumps that were returned by your pretty customers, you’re aware of the problems that were caused after that. See without erpnext you know the mess you would be in and with erpnext you obviously will be able to keep tracks of things and to the follow up required but wouldn’t 
It’ll be better if you avoid all this right from the start?  What can one do in such a case? Maybe you would go to the supplier’s warehouse, check the raw materials used, see how the workers put the entire shoe together and so on. But is this feasible? Suppose you have many suppliers and all of them produce different shoes for you. So are you going to go to all these warehouses personally?
Acha forget that they’ve delivered the shoes to you then you check all of them and enter that in your register but now you’ve lost that register. You can’t start checking all over again na. See, time is very precious; you can avoid all this with the help of erpnext because you can keep track of all the inspections you’ve done against which stock. This makes your work easier since you can send somebody to inspect some goods and enter it into your system so you have an idea about who has inspected what. Incase of anything that goes wrong later you know who to catch. This will thus avoid the defected shoes to be sold to your customer in the first place. So work done better = better service = happy customers = good business.
Like my previous chapters let’s define what is stock? Just like that.
 

     The capital stock (or just stock) of a business entity represents the original capital paid   into   or invested in the business by its founders. It serves as a security for the creditors of a business since it cannot be withdrawn to the detriment of the creditors. Stock is distinct from the property and the assets of a business which may fluctuate in quantity and value.






      Lets see the functions that erpnext provides.

Item- you can add in all the new shoes that you have in your store. So you can thus maintain an inventory of all the details relating to it. By keeping everything in your system it becomes easier for you to check which items are available and which needs to be purchased. Hence you wouldn’t have to run around at the lat minute.

Delivery note- this note can be issued to your customer when you deliver the goods to them. This way there’s a formal document maintained, so later on your customer cannot tell you that the order never reached them.

Purchase receipt- when to buy something from your supplier or distributor you can make a purchase receipt, where all the details about the supplier you bought the goods from, the description of the items and at what price you’ve bought them. 

Installation note- this comes under post sales, i.e. what service you provide to your customer once you’ve delivered the goods. For e.g. if you sell a music system to your customer, you can send somebody to install that system at your customers place. If you do this you can prepare an installation note specifying the time the person will go to your customers place and the date. 

Quality inspection- like I said earlier it’s better to check your items before selling them to your customer. In such a case you can conduct quality inspections. This can happen when you selling as well as purchasing some goods. You can specify the type of inspection and who will conduct it. When you have quality inspections in such a case you can assure that all the shoes you have in your store are in good state. And this way your reputation will be good and when you provide good quality shoes at the best rate, more customers would come to you and hence your business will be a success n grow bigger.

Stock entry- you can enter the stock into your system and specify the warehouse your stock has come from. If its material issue then you specify the source warehouse. You can use this incase you want some raw material from a supplier to make your shoe. Then there’s material receipt where you issue a formal document stating the item you’ve bought and the warehouse you’ve bought them from. Material transfer can be used when you’re transferring one raw material from a source warehouse to the target warehouse where all your shoes are made. Subcontracting is specified when you’ve asked someone else to make your final product. Like you give a material to a tailor to stitch a dress for you. Here the tailor is your subcontractor.

Stock reconciliation- sometimes when the actual amount of shoes in your store is more than that which is reflected in your system. You can use this function to modify the quantity of shoes you have accordingly. This will automatically update the stock entries.

Stock UOM replace utility- you can change the current unit of measurement to a new unit. Like for instance you were selling your shoes based on the weight (hypothetically) and now you want to sell it based on the number. Then use this function.



Points to remember
All your items can be entered into your system and you can keep a tab of the stock you have irrespective of where your stores are located with the help of erpnext.
Quality inspections can be carried out regularly so that you don’t sell defected items. Erpnext helps you to keep a track of all the inspections carried out.
Based on the stock level you can decide which item needs to be purchased or transferred. This helps you to be one step ahead and you can avoid last minute tamasha of getting that item to satisfy your customer.
By viewing the stock aging report you can decide whether a certain item needs to be manufactured hence forth or to keep a sale etc.
You can keep a track of material transfers to material issues and subcontractors so you know what’s happening with your stock and the raw materials used. This way nobody can take you for a ride. 


